Hello. This is a map of all 88
constellations in the night sky. And I
made this because I realized I only knew
a few of the constellations. So, I
wanted to learn them all. So, I drew
them all out and put them together in
this map, which is interestingly my
first actual map, despite making loads
of maps on this channel. First one
that's actually a real map. So, by the
end of this video, we're going to go
through all 88 constellations, which are
useful to know not just to locate the
stars and have a kind of geography of
the night sky, but it's also for me
useful when there's news reports out
about things that happening in space, a
new supernova or nebula or interesting
planets. I want to know where they
actually are in the sky. And this is the
standard by which astronomers, space
scientists navigate the night sky is
with these constellations. So if you
want to get your hands on this map as a
poster, there's links below this video.
Also, you can go to dossmaps.com which
has got all of my posters on there. Uh
right, let's get into it. So in this
background, there's all of these dots
are actual positions of actual stars.
And here are the stars that are in the
constellations. And here their sizes
correspond to how bright they are. It's
quite a good way of indicating the
brightnesses of different stars. Um here
are the constellations.
And really there's no correct way to
join them up. Um historically,
culturally there many different
alternatives, but I'm focusing on the
standard set that's used by space
scientists in astronomy,
astrophysicists. And the point of these
is that they cover the entire sky in
these regions. And these define the
boundaries that cover the entire
celestial sphere. So there's no point of
the sky that isn't covered by one of
these zones. So it's a way of navigating
the night sky. It's kind of a shared
language. So we can point out like where
things are when things happen. Um, so
for example, if something's exploded in
Leo, you know which region to look in.
So we're going to start with the 12
constellations of the zodiac. Um, this
is basically like the backbone of the
night sky. And they follow this line
called the ecliptic, which you can see
here. This is basically the path in the
sky that the sun takes, the moon takes,
and all the planets. It's basically the
path of the solar system against the
backdrop of the stars behind them. So
that's what the ecliptic is. It's like
the plane of the solar system. So we
have Leo, Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries,
and Pisces.
And then on the other side, Aquarius,
Capricornous, Sagittarius, Scorpius,
Libra, and Virgo. And I'm sure you've
heard all of these before because
they're the horoscopes of the star
signs. And um we don't exactly know
where the origins of these are. Um but
they're very ancient. Uh they're
probably like Babylonian, ancient
Greece, Romans. They used all of these.
And the reason that they probably
Babylonian in origin is the point of
these is to divide the sky up into 12
30° chunks to make up 360°.
And the Babylonians big into time
calendars and this is probably where we
get our months from. Um they loved base
60, the Babylonians. That's where 60
seconds in a minute, 60 minutes in an
hour comes from. And uh this history of
astronomy was carried through the Greeks
and Romans and so on. A lot of these are
based on Greek myths. Um, in fact, a lot
of these constellations, a lot of the
constellations in general come from this
dude Tommy, uh, who was a Greco Roman
chap in the second century who is into
loads of different stuff, but
essentially astronomy and astrology and
this is why these are used in astrology.
Um but the thing is astrology is all a
bit wrong for many reasons but
specifically in this case because all
the constellations are in the wrong
place. So okay think of your star sign.
So mine is Capricorn which goes from the
22nd of December basically the winter
solstice through to the 19th of January.
So if we find that, you can see um that
the winter solstice is in the wrong
place here. So going from the winter
solstice through to January the 19th is
about here to here, right? And so that's
supposed to be for Capricorn, but that
fits into Sagittarius.
So what's going on? Well, it turns out
back in Tom's time, the winter solstice
was actually in Capricorn, but it's been
drifting to the right by one degree
every 72 years. So, in the 2,000 odd
years since Tommy, we've actually
drifted 26° nearly 30° to the right. The
ecliptics move across the
constellations. So, why has it done
that? Well, it's all to do with the
Earth's tilted axis. So, you know, the
Earth's got a tilted axis. So, when
we're traveling around the Sun, um, we
get the seasons because when it's tilted
away from the sun, it's winter in the
northern hemisphere. When we're tilted
towards the sun, it's the summer in the
northern hemisphere. And the winter
solstice is when we're the most tilted
away. And the summer solstice is when
we're the most tilted towards it. So,
that's to do with the tilted axis of the
Earth. But it turns out the axis of the
earth actually moves. It processes kind
of like a spinning top. So it doesn't
stay pointing in the same direction uh
forever. It rotates around one
procession every 26,000 years, which
ends up meaning that this uh ecliptic
plane is moving by one degree every 72
years. And that's what causes the drift
of the winter and the summer solstesses
because exactly where it's pointing when
it's the most far away from the sun has
drifted a bit. So now it's pointing at a
slightly different point of the sky in
the winter solstice or the summer
solstice. But the main thing to take
away from this scientifically is when
you're next reading your horoscopes, you
should technically be reading the one
next to the one you have been reading.
So important to bear in mind. Um the
tilted axis of the earth is also the
reason that this line curves like this
this sinocidal shape of the ecliptic and
that's because um this ecliptic is
showing the path of the sun and the moon
and the planets and from our point of
view from earth because we've got a
tilted axis if you then correct that
axis so that we are up it looks like the
whole solar system is tilted. So if
you're looking one way they look higher
up in the sky if you look the other way
they look lower down. Then if you like
unravel that that makes this sinocidal
line. So that's basically the plane of
the solar system wrapped out. We can
also draw the Milky Way galaxy in the
background which is here. And this is
also a big curve a big sinosidal curve
because turns out the solar system
itself is tilted compared to the galaxy.
So if you imagine the galaxy is a flat
disc the our solar system is like 60°
away 60.2° 2° away from the plane of the
the galaxy, which is kind of weird, but
uh the thing is, and I've always said
this, there is no up in space. You've
got to choose your own up. So, for this
map, I've chosen the North Pole. Our
north pole is up and our south pole is
down. And that means a really important
constellation for us is Ursa Miner, the
little bear, because it contains the
north star, Polaris, which is really
close to where our actual north pole
points in the sky. So here's Ursa Miner,
the little bear, but it looks really
stretched out. Actually, in the night
sky, it looks more like this. and it's
stretched out because what I've had to
do is turn the sky sphere into a flat
plane just like uh how you if you've got
a globe of the earth to draw a flat map
of the earth you need to stretch it out
you need to do a projection same thing
here so um the constellations and the
regions in the very north and very south
of this map are stretched out and the
ones in the middle are a bit squished um
but what's nice about this projection is
that it matches the map of the Earth.
You're just looking the other way. Um,
right. So, let's crack on with the other
constellation. So, below Ursa Minor is
Draco, the dragon. Um, so you can see
that very high in the north [snorts]
sky. And this region contains the
ecliptic north pole. So, that's
basically the north pole of our solar
system. So that's another up. I could
have chosen to draw this map, but I
didn't. Oh, there's also a galactic
north pole here. So this is the north
pole of the Milky Way galaxy, which is
it's in the constellation called Koma
Beronices, which was named after the
hair of Queen Beroni II of Egypt. I'm
sure there's some backstory there. So
over half of these constellations, 48 of
them, originate from Tomy's time. So,
the story behind them is all a bit mad,
you know, Greek mythology and that. Um,
and that's I'd love to get into it, but
it's a bit beyond the scope of this
video. So, then we have the plow or big
dipper, which is very recognizable in
the northern hemisphere. And this is
part of the larger Ursa major star
constellation, the Great Bear. Um, next
to this is quite a faint constellation
called Camello Pardalis,
which is a giraffe. the the Latin name
for giraffe, turns out, is a spotted
camel.
Below this is Orria. Um, this is an
ancient constellation which is either
known as the shepherd or the charioteer.
Here I've drawn the shepherd cuz I
couldn't fit in a chariot. Then we've
got um some more ancient Greek things.
Perseus, Andromeda, Cassiopia,
Cassiopia. Um so the story behind this
Perseus killed the Medusa and also
rescued Andromeda who is being
sacrificed by her parents to the sea
monster Satus which is down here. And in
the middle of all of this we have
triangulum.
It's just a triangle.
And then on the other side of the map
here, so wrapping around from one side
to the other, we've got Andromeda's
father, weird father, Cphus,
Cphus, sorry.
And then we've just got some nice
animals. We've got Pegasus, Aulius, the
little horse, Signis, which is Latin for
swan, and Aquilla, which is Latin for
eagle.
And then we've got a few more uh ancient
Greek characters. We've got Hercules,
the Greek hero dude. We've got Boots,
the plowman, and this constellation has
also got the brightest star in the
northern hemisphere, Arcturus. Then
we've got Aiccus, the serpent bearer,
and his snake serpents.
And then there's a few more smaller
constellations. We've got Lyra, which is
Latin for liar. Sagitta, Latin for
arrow, and delinus,
which is Latin for dolphin. And then
finally, we've got Corona Borealis, the
crown. And and these are all the classic
constellations from Tomy's time in the
northern hemisphere. Um, but there are a
few more still in the northern
hemisphere which were defined later by a
17th century astronomer called Johannes
Havvelius. Uh, these tend to be quite
difficult to pick out because they're
either small or faint or or both. So,
first we've got this one, Kane's
Venatici. Venatici.
Unfortunately, I didn't learn Latin in
school, so I might be pronouncing these
a little bit wrong. Um, I went to a
comprehensive.
Moving on, we have Lynx. We've got Leo
Miner, the smaller lion. Um, Vulpicula,
a little fox. Lerta, the lizard, and
Skutum, the shield. And then we've got
sex which is in the southern hemisphere
but that's named after an astronomical
sex tant which Johannes Havvelius used
in observation. So it's like a a tool
used in astronomical uh observations.
So that covers the entire northern
hemisphere of constellations. And in
terms of spotting these constellations,
uh it depends on where on earth you are
and what time of year you're looking
because interestingly in the northern
hemisphere, the constellations around
the winter solstice, these are all the
ones you can best see in the summer. And
the ones around the summer solstice here
are the ones that you can best see in
the winter, like uh Orion here. And so
the seasons are kind of backwards
according to this. And the reason is is
this ecliptic line from the ancient
Greeks that plots the path of the sun.
So in the daytime in mid-inter the earth
is facing those constellations around
the winter solstice but we can't see
them because it's daytime and the sun is
there. But in the winter when we turn
around into nighttime, we're then
looking at the ones on the opposite
side, the ones around the summer
solstice and vice versa. Uh Babylonians,
Greeks, well into tracking the sun, uh
which I understand. But if any of that's
confusing, there are loads of good apps
which will show you exactly what you can
see tonight in the night sky wherever
and whenever you are. Okay, so we'll
carry on into the southern hemisphere
and we'll keep going with the
constellations defined by Tommy. These
tend to be close to the ecliptic because
he couldn't see that far south because
of the curvature of the earth. Um, so
we've got Orion the hunter already. Next
to him is Canis Miner, the lesser dog.
Then we've got Hydra, the water, the
female water snake, which is the biggest
constellation in the night sky. And then
we've got Crater, which was a type of
cup used to water down wine.
They used to do that apparently. We've
got Corvis the crow, centurus, the
centaur, and Lupus, which is the Latin
for wolf. And the centaur is normally
depicted as gruesomely killing the wolf
with a spear, but I've gone for a nice
belly rub in my drawing. Uh below uh the
centaur is um Krux the southern cross
which is bright and easy to spot in the
southern hemisphere. And interestingly
this used to be visible from Europe but
it slid below the horizon in 400 AD
because of the procession of the earth's
axis. And so this was known to the
ancient Greeks but then uh we couldn't
see it anymore for a long long time
until it was rediscovered but through
this lineage by the explorers in like
the 1500s. Next up, we've got Ara, which
is Latin for the altar. Corona
Oustralis, which is the southern crown,
which is the southern counterpart of the
Corona borealis in the north. Then we've
got Pisces Ostrinus, the southern fish.
And then if we go back over here close
to Orion, we've got Leapus the hair,
Canis Miner, the great dog, and Erodis
the river. Then down here we've got
Puppus, Bella and Karina which together
used to be one big constellation called
Argo Navvice which was the ship in Jason
and the Argonaut. But this constellation
was too big and later in the 18th
century it was divided into three parts
by a French astronomer Nicholas Louie de
Laai uh with Pus meaning the stern of
the ship, Karina the keel and hull and
Vela is the sails. Unfortunately, I drew
this one backwards because Puppus, the
stern of the ship, should be the back of
the ship. Uh, I've drawn it as the
front. So, what can you do? Looks cool
though. So, that's the end of the
constellations that come from Tommy and
the rest of the constellations in the
southern sky were added later in the
15th century to 18th century. First,
we'll look at a bunch which were defined
by a Dutch Flemish astronomer called
Petrus Plankius. Uh there's Monoseras,
the unicorn, which is quite faint
constellation. Then we've got Columba,
which is Latin for dove, also quite hard
to see. And then we've got um Dorado,
which refers to a mahi mahi fish. And
that's interesting because that's the
only constellation with a Spanish name,
not well a not Latin name. This one's
Spanish. Then we have
Volands, the flying fish. Over here,
Hydrris, the male water snake. and uh
chameleon, musker the fly, Apus the bird
of paradise. Then we've got triangulum
which is the southern triangle
counterpart to the triangle in the
northern hemisphere triangulum. And then
we've got pavo the peacock. And then
we've got indis for Indian which
historically this has been drawn uh
representing sort of a generic
indigenous person like with feathers.
And
this seems pretty old school and I
didn't want to draw that. So I had to
think about what to draw while keeping
the same name. And so I went back to the
origin of the word Indus which is a
river in South Asia and is also what led
to the country India being called that.
So I tried to draw someone from India.
Is that better? I hope so. Anyway, uh
next we've got Gruss the crane. uh
Tucana the Tucan and then Phoenix. Uh
and now we're on to the final 14
constellations and these were all
defined by the French astronomer Nikolai
Loui De Laai in the 18th century and
these were mostly named after different
kinds of tools or technologies. So we've
got um forax the furnace, kalum the
chisel, horolog which is for the
pendulum clock, reticulum which is for a
reticule. So like the end of a telescope
and Mensa which is for table mountain
and it strikes me that that's not a
tool. Um that's a mountain.
Uh Pctor the painters easel. Um Pixis
which is a mariner's compass like north
south east west. Then Antlia which is an
air pump. Um Cirinus which is a drawing
compass. So the other kind of compass
the primary school style for drawing
circles. Then we've got norma, the right
angle or set square. Um, telescopium and
microscopium.
And then octans, which is named after
the octan, which is like a navigational
instrument. And this one you can see is
stretched out a lot. Um, the actual
constellation. I haven't fitted the
drawing to the constellation because it
would look really weird, but you can you
can see what I'm doing there. And then
finally, we've got sculptor, which is a
rendition of the sculptor studio. Right,
so there we have it. That's all of the
constellations in the night sky. I hope
that was helpful, and we'll give you a
bit of geography to be able to navigate
where things are in the night sky. And
my plan is to use this map in future
videos to talk about cool things going
on in space. And you probably noticed
during this, there's some other drawings
in this picture, interesting stars,
nebula, and other stuff. and I want to
explore all of these in the next video.
I also want to say a big thank you to
Brilliant for sponsoring this video.
They've sponsored so many of my videos
over the years and I stick with them
because I genuinely think that they've
built an excellent place to learn STEM
subjects. And if you like my videos and
you want to take things to the next
level and properly learn a subject,
Brilliant's a fantastic place to do
that. I use it myself. I'm currently
working through some mathematics
courses. And if you've ever struggled
with maths, it's a whole another way of
learning it. It's way more approachable,
hands-on, and tailored to your own
ability. And there's nothing as
satisfying as uh when a concept you've
been struggling with finally clicks and
you're like, "Oh, that's how it is."
Honestly, it's so good. So, to access
everything for free on Brilliant for a
full 30 days, go to brilliant.org/dos
or scan the QR code. The link's also in
the description. And if you use this
link, you can also get 20% off an annual
premium subscription which gives you
unlimited access to everything on
Brilliant. Also, using this link helps
me out because it tells them you came
from here. And thanks so much for
watching and sticking around to the end.
If you want to support me making more
videos, buying a poster is a fantastic
way of doing that. I've also got a
Patreon which I mostly use as a
newsletter, so you can sign up for that
for free and you get the same thing as
any of the pay tiers. But if you did
want to support me at all, that's a
great place to do it. Other than that,
thanks so much and I'll see you on the
next video.